# 215-Homework-0-Public

I took COMP 215: Introduction to Program Design fall of sophomore year.
This is some of the directions for the first assignment.

___________

1. The Goal
This homework is designed to be a "warmup assignment" to familiarize you with basic Java syntax. In this assignment, you will complete the definition of a simple class that can be used to find the prime factorization of an input integer. Prime factorization consists of decomposing an integer into the product of a series of prime integers. As examples:

The prime factorization of 2 is 2.
The prime factorization of 4 is 2 x 2.
The prime factorization of 12345 is 3 x 5 x 823.

1.A. Pedagogical Goals
In completing this assignment, you will master basic Java syntax, including:

1. Implementing constructors and class methods.
2. Declaring, defining, and using variables of primitive types and arrays.
3. Using loops and conditionals to impose control flow.
4. Invoking methods from builtin packages (specifically java.lang.Math).

In addition, you will begin to practice two skills that will be overarching themes for the class:

1. Translating written specifications into code.
2. Writing thorough test suites and using those test suites to debug your code.

3. Breaking Down the Problem
You should begin by accepting this GitHub classroom assignment: https://classroom.github.com/a/7NtkJo5p (Links to an external site.). This repository includes the following files:

1. src/main/rice/PrimeFactorizer.java: A skeleton file for the prime factorizer that you will be implementing.
2. src/test/rice/PrimeFactorizerTest.java: Sample test code for the prime factorizer.
3. .idea/*: Configuration files for IntelliJ. Do not edit these files!
4. .gitignore: A file telling Git to ignore changes to certain files. Do not edit this file!

Using the skeleton code as a starting point, you will need to complete the definition of the PrimeFactorizer class. This is a concrete class that encapsulates the ability to compute the prime factorization of integers.

At a minimum, your PrimeFactorizer class should implement the constructor and public method described in this API. You are free to add any fields that will help you to implement the required methods. In addition, you are free to add private or protected helper methods as appropriate.

Please make sure to carefully read all instructions regarding the packages in which to implement each class and the signatures (and expected behavior) of the methods that you are to implement. If your classes are named incorrectly, are in the wrong packages, your methods' signatures do not match the expected signatures, or you use external libraries (add additional JARs to your project) your code will not pass the auto-grader. If you're uncertain about anything regarding the configuration of your project or what libraries are allowed, please ask a member of the staff!


4. Test Cases
In addition to implementing the classes described in Section 3, you will also need to write a JUnit test suite for your code in the PrimeFactorizerTest class. You should make sure to include test cases for each of the public methods specified in the API.

As the rubric in Section 5 (below) will describe in greater detail, we will grade the effectiveness of your test cases based on two principles: white box effectiveness and black box effectiveness. White box effectiveness will be assessed based on coverage of your own code; black box effectiveness will be assessed based on how well your test cases "cover" a variety of different situations, even if those situations are not handled differently by your personal implementation (and therefore may not be required to achieve good white box coverage).
